DOCS-5190 Create clerk middleware page (#647)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/references/nextjs/clerk-middleware.mdx

---
title: clerkMiddleware() | Next.js
description: The `clerkMiddleware()` function allows you to protect your Next.js application using middleware.
---

# `clerkMiddleware()`

The `clerkMiddleware()` helper integrates Clerk authentication into your Next.js application through middleware. `clerkMiddleware()` is compatible with both the App and Pages routers. 

## Usage

Create a `middleware.ts` file. If your application uses the `src/` directory, your `middleware.ts` file should be placed inside the `src/` folder. If you are not using a `src/` directory, place the `middleware.ts` file in your root directory. 

<Callout level="info">
For more information about middleware in Next.js, see the [Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/middleware).
</Callout>

```tsx filename="middleware.ts"
import { clerkMiddleware } from '@clerk/nextjs/server';

export default clerkMiddleware()

export const config = {
  matcher: ['/((?!.*\\..*|_next).*)', '/', '/(api|trpc)(.*)'],
};
````

> This basic Middleware will not protect any routes. The new `clerkMiddleware()` behaves in the opposite manner from the previous `authMiddleware()` that Clerk shipped with version 4 of our SDKs. With `clerkMiddleware()` all routes are now public and you must opt-in to protection for routes.

Reviewer: My opinion, let's not refer to `clerkMiddleware` as new, that makes the docs time sensitive. Additionally any reference to older behaviors can be mentioned and handled in migration v4 to v5 documentation. 
```suggestion
By default `clerkMiddleware` will not protect any routes. With `clerkMiddleware()` all routes are now public and you must opt-in to protection for routes.
```

With the recommended matcher, all routes are matched by Clerk's authentication Middleware, with the exception of internal `/_next/` routes and static files. Static files are detected by matching on paths that end in `.+\..+`.

## Environment Variables

> If you are building your own sign in pages, you don't need to add these pages to your `publicRoutes`. They will be inferred from your `.env` file:

Reviewer: I think the hyphen is common use throughout the docs, I could be wrong. 
```suggestion
If you are building your own sign-in pages, you don't need to add these pages to your `publicRoutes`. They will be inferred from your `.env` file:
```

```ts filename=".env"
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_IN_URL=/sign-in
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_UP_URL=/sign-up
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_IN_URL=/
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_UP_URL=/
```

## Protect Multiple Routes

> `clerkMiddleare()` shipes with the helper function `createRouteMatcher()`. `createRouteMatcher()` allows you to add an array of routes, and then check if the route the user is trying to visit matches one of the routes. You can use this matcher to protect multiple routes. The paths provided to this helper can be in the same format as the paths provided tothe Next Middleware matcher.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`clerkMiddleare()` ships with the helper function `createRouteMatcher()`. `createRouteMatcher()` allows you to add an array of routes, which returns a function that takes in the `request` object to then check if the route the user is trying to visit matches one of the routes. You can use this matcher to protect multiple routes. The paths provided to this helper can be in the same format as the paths provided to the Next Middleware matcher.  
```

> `clerkMiddleare()` shipes with the helper function `createRouteMatcher()`. `createRouteMatcher()` allows you to add an array of routes, and then check if the route the user is trying to visit matches one of the routes. You can use this matcher to protect multiple routes. The paths provided to this helper can be in the same format as the paths provided tothe Next Middleware matcher.  

Author: Fixed.

In the following example the routes `/dashboard(.*)` and `/forum(.*)` are passed to the `createRouteMatcher()` function and assigned to `isProtectedRoute`.

```tsx filename="middleware.ts"

> import { clerkMiddleware, createRouteMatcher } from '@clerk/nextjs/server';

Reviewer 2: Reduce line length here to not have horizontal scroll bars on the code component

Reviewer: Is there a way we can do this programmatically? Either prevent horizontal scroll or a linter that detects it?

> In the following example the routes `/dashboard(.*)` and `/forum(.*)` are passed to the `createRouteMatcher()` function and assigned to `isProtectedRoute`. The Middleware logic then tests if the current route is one of the protected routes with `isProtectedRoutes(req)`, which will return true if it matches and false if it does not. 

Reviewer: I think the second half repeats the previous paragraph, maybe these two paragraphs can be neatly combined somehow? 
```suggestion
In the following example the routes `/dashboard(.*)` and `/forum(.*)` are passed to the `createRouteMatcher()` function and assigned to `isProtectedRoute`.
```

const isProtectedRoute = createRouteMatcher([
  '/dashboard(.*)',
  '/forum(.*)',
]);

export default clerkMiddleware(
  (auth, req) => {
    if (isProtectedRoute(req)) {
      auth().protect();
    }
  }
);

export const config = {
  matcher: ['/((?!.*\\..*|_next).*)', '/', '/(api|trpc)(.*)'],
};
```

## Functions and Methods

### `createRouteMatcher()`

The `createRouteMatcher()` allows you to pass an array of routes, and then check if the user's router matches one of the routes in the array. This will return a `boolean`. You can use more than one `createRouterMatcher()` in your application if you have two or more groups of routes.

```tsx filename="middleware.ts" 

> import { clerkMiddleware, createRouteMatcher } from '@clerk/nextjs/server';

Reviewer 2: Reduce line length here to not have horizontal scroll bars on the code component

const isTenantRoute = createRouteMatcher([
  '/organization-selector',
  '/orgid/(.*)'
])

const isTenentAdminRoute = createRouteMatcher([
  '/orgId/(.*)/mememberships',
  '/orgId/(.*)/domain',
]);

export default clerkMiddleware(
  (auth, req) => {
    // restrict admin routes to users with specific permissions 
    if (isTenantAdminRoute(req)) {

>       auth().protect(has => has({permission: 'org:sys_memberships:manage'}) || has({permissions: 'org:sys_domains_manage'}))

Reviewer 2: Reduce line length here to not have horizontal scroll bars on the code component

The following example will require the user to be logged in and if not will redirect the user to sign in.
```tsx filename="middleware.tsx"
if (protectedRoute(req)) { 
  auth().protect()
}
```

This example will restrict the routes to users with the specified permission. `isProtectedRoute()` would be created using `createRouteMAthciner()`
```tsx filename="middleware.ts" 
if (isProtectedRoute(req)) { 
  auth().protect({ permission: "org:sys_profile:delete"})
}
```

The following will restrict the routes to user's with the specified role. `isProtectedRoute()` would be created using `createRouteMAthciner()`
```tsx filename="middleware.ts"
if (protectedRoute(req)) { 
  auth().protect({ role: "org:admin"})
}
```

#### `redirectUrl` 

You can pass a redirect parameter to `protect()`. Examples:
```tsx filename="middleware.tsx"
if (protectedRoute(req)) { 
  auth().protect({ redirectUrl: "/subscribe" })
}
```

```tsx filename="middleware.tsx"
if (protectedRoute(req)) { 
  auth().protect({ role: "org:admin"}, { redirectUrl: "/org-selector" })
}
```

## Debug your middleware

> If you are having issues getting your Middleware dialed in, or are trying to narrow down auth-related issues, you can use the debugging feature in `clerkMiddlware()`. Add debug: true to `clerkMiddlware()` and you will get debug logs in your terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are having issues getting your Middleware dialed in, or are trying to narrow down auth-related issues, you can use the debugging feature in `clerkMiddlware()`. Add `{ debug: true }` to `clerkMiddlware()` and you will get debug logs in your terminal.
```

---

# `clerkMiddleware()`

The `clerkMiddleware()` helper integrates Clerk authentication into your Next.js application through middleware. `clerkMiddleware()` is compatible with both the App and Pages routers. 

## Usage

Create a `middleware.ts` file. If your application uses the `src/` directory, your `middleware.ts` file should be placed inside the `src/` folder. If you are not using a `src/` directory, place the `middleware.ts` file in your root directory. 

<Callout level="info">
For more information about middleware in Next.js, see the [Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/middleware).
</Callout>

```tsx filename="middleware.ts"
import { clerkMiddleware } from '@clerk/nextjs/server';

export default clerkMiddleware(
  (auth, req) => {}

export const config = {
  matcher: ['/((?!.*\\..*|_next).*)', '/', '/(api|trpc)(.*)'],
};
````

This basic Middleware will not protext any routes. The new `clerkMiddleware()` behaves in the opposite manner from the previous `authMiddleware()` that Clerk shipped with version 4 of our SDKs. With `clerkMiddleware()` all routes are now public and you must opt-in to protection for routes.

> With the recommended matcher, all routes are protected by Clerk's authentication Middleware, with the exception of internal `/_next/` routes and static files. Static files are detected by matching on paths that end in `.+\..+`.

Author: I copied some of that and missed updating it. Good catch.

## Environment Variables

If you are building your own sign in pages, you don't need to add these pages to your `publicRoutes`. They will be inferred from your `.env` file:

```ts filename=".env"
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_IN_URL=/sign-in
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_UP_URL=/sign-up
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_IN_URL=/
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_UP_URL=/
```

## Protect Multiple Routes

> `clerkMiddleare()` shipes with the helper function `createRouteMAtcher()`. `createRouteMatcher()` allows you to add an array of routes, and then check if the route the user is trying to visit matches one of the routes. You can use this matcher to protect multiple routes. 

Author: Sounds good. I will add that.

| ---------------------------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `audience?`                        | `string \| string[]` | A string or list of [audiences](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519#section-4.1.3). If passed, it is checked against the `aud` claim in the token.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `authorizedParties?`               | `string[]`           | An allowlist of origins to verify against, to protect your application from the subdomain cookie leaking attack.<br/>For example:<br/>`['http://localhost:3000', 'https://example.com']`<br/>For more information, refer to the [reference guide](/docs/references/nodejs/token-verification#validate-the-authorized-party-of-a-session-token). |

> | `clockSkewInSeconds? (deprecated)` | `number`             | Deprecated in favor of `clockSkewInMs`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer 3: nit: let's just use the new `clockSkewInMs` property here.
